miss Kathy fine blend mild instant
coffee that's full of coffee flavor the
Italian car makers lonchar are buying
back hundreds of their bata models and
scrapping them because of serious rust
in the engine mountings there has been
no official recall of the cars but it's
estimated the fault has already cost
luncher about a million pounds sue lloyd
roberts reports Lancia dealers are
trading old models for new obligingly
telling disgruntled customers that
they'll buy back their rusted beater
saloons worth only scrap to the company
and offering generous part exchange
terms for the new models it's all part
of a frantic public relations exercise
to preserve the Lancia name in Britain
their biggest market outside Italy and
help cover up the rust problem they've
identified as destroying their cars the
corrosion takes place down here on the
rear mounting of the front subframe
vital for holding up the engine once
corrosion takes place the engine can
drop away the affected models are good
only for the scrap heap Lancia admit
they've already sent 500 cars to yards
like this in Somerset which was well
guarded against the cameras today and
another 400 of the mainly older models
will go the same way but some reports
say that thousands more cars could be
involved even the most recent models so
can Lancia honesty's say that there's a
limit to the number of cars affected no
all I can say is that with the with the
improvements in production we hope that
this is there that has eliminated the
problem but I would be foolish to
categorically state that it will never
happen again
why didn't you issue a general warning
when the problem was first detected
because when the problem was first
identified and the factory assured us
that it was not a safety related problem
and we couldn't identify that it
happened to all cars prior to a certain
build date we felt that we would treat
each case as and when it occurred
and still there is some risk for the
customer driving around with possibly an
engine dropping out of the car well it
doesn't drop out exactly because the
engine is supported by four mountings
two at the front and two at the back it
is the two at the back that are the ones
that suffer and all that happens to the
engine is it drops down at the slight
angle but it is still possible to
maneuver the car with the car in that
condition
now if you say that new rustproofing
methods should solve the problem and
while they can't offer a guarantee for
the new models they do point to the new
anti-corrosion guarantee introduced in
this country on April the 1st sue Lloyd
Roberts News at Ten at the Lancia
showroom